As you've seen, Kafka offers a number of configuration options for topics.
Remember, you can create topics automatically,
but it's not a good practice to get into.
To get the best performance out of your Kafka cluster and it's topics,
always make sure to manually create your topics with carefully considered options.
One easy thing to consider in your producer applications is to
write code that checks to see if the desired topic exists.
If it doesn't exist,
then the producer can configure and create the topic.
Alternatively, you can also consider using Bash scripts on
infrastructure provisioning tool like terraform to create your topics as well.
What you choose will ultimately be driven by
the workflows that you and your team are most comfortable with.
Just remember, create topics manually.
Don't rely on automatic topic creation.